[MUSIC]
>> Rachel Nabors: So
let's do something neat with that block.
Let's do something that we can't
do with transitions alone.
But first, let's take a little segue
into the land of traditional animation.
This is a walk cycle I'm using with
the permission of a friend of mine,
Steven Gordon.
He was the key frame animator and
character designer for
X-Men Evolution way back in the 90s,
if anyone remembers it.
Anybody remember X-Men Evolution?
My people.
When I was in the Philippines, the entire
class was like, X-men Evolution!
Apparently it was a pretty
big deal in Manila.
But some people in America
still remember it.
So this is my favorite character,
it's Rogue.
She's the kind of,
goth teen of the X kids and
this is the sort of walk
cycle that animation students
spend their first couple of semesters
working on, to add to their portfolio.
And by the time they're done with it,
they realize why people send so
much animation work overseas.
Because this is kind of the busy work
of animation in-betweening all of these
these these key frames
to create this cycle.
But what Steven Gordon did when he
made this particular walk cycle is,
when he designed these characters and
they were shipping them off to overseas
animation houses, he needed to communicate
with animators what each of the characters
would look like when they walked.
So those animators could make informed
decisions about how they should walk
across the screen to go get a glass of
water, how their movement would be.
And he had one for each of the characters,
this is the one he had for
Rogue, pretty cool,
nice little visual communication trick.
It's kind of the hello world of animation.
So I wanted to give you all the chance
to make your own walk cycle.
I've already done the painful part,
which is making all of the sprites and
frames that you're going to need.
I already did that, thank you.
It took a long time,
I did not outsource it to another country.
It's all American animation.
My goodness, this is what one
of those looks like on paper.
Let me tell you a little bit
about these different columns.
This isn't the entire cycle.
This is a big sprite sheet
containing several different tunas.
The one all the way there on
the left is the first four or
five frames of the walk cycle that he has.
The second column is a,
from walk to sitting cycle.
You might run between having
him going from walking
to sitting down behind a computer.
The third one is a transition
from a walk to a run.
And the fourth one is a running
cycle of him running really fast.
So you would play that third one in
between the first and the fourth.
Showing him speed up.
I have used these before,
you'll probably see plenty of examples.
The sprite sheet took me forever to make,
so I reuse it wherever I possibly can.
You definitely gain an appreciation for
the way the animation
stylings of Hanna-Barbera and
other 60s and 70s animation favorites
because this is how they saved money.
They reused so many walk cycles.
>> Rachel Nabors: So
what we do with something, with a sprite
like that, is we make a zoetrope.
I believe I recorded this at a museum
in Munich, and this is essentially
a sprite sheet being mechanically
animated to show us this horse running.
I think I'm actually running it backwards,
though.
It looks like the horse is prancing,
so I may have messed that up.
Maybe I should just reverse the film.
Anyway.
So essentially,
we're gonna do the same thing, but
we're gonna use a very
special timing function.
We're gonna use steps.
So, steps is a special
timing function in that,
you pass a value x, just like cubic
bezier curves, it occurs where
you give a cubic bezier parentheses and
you give it a bunch of numbers.
You give steps a number,
a number, one number.
And this number tells it how many
frames you want in that animation.
So, say you're going from black to red,
or pardon,
say you're going from white to red and
you want it to transition in a chunky way.
You want it to turn into several shades
of gray, or maybe just one shade of gray.
Go white, gray, black.
White, gray, black, right?
You want it to have steps.
You don't want it to gently fade
into gray and then fade into black.
You want it to be white,
then you want it to be gray,
and then you want it to be black.
You might pass it a steps timing function
and form of steps parentheses three.
The documentation, like how exactly
this works, is really confusing.
I've actually been working with the W3C on
coming up with a timing function that is
less confusing,
which I think we are renaming Frames.
There are a couple of gotchas,
I'll show you those gotchas.
I don't think many people
use steps in the wild,
but should you ever want to do something
really cool and chunky you will know how,
and you will be far ahead
of your your peers.
But if you really want
to see specific gotchas,
I have documented all
of my pain on CodePen.
If you ever want to see a horror story
before you go to bed on a Halloween
evening or something like that,
check it out.